detective recapped here today i'm going
to explain a biographical crime drama
film called molly's game
which is based on a true story spoilers
ahead
watch out and take care molly bloom
recounts her early life as a young and
up-and-coming mogul skiing competitor
when molly was young she had a severe
back condition called rapid onset
scoliosis
marked by a sideways curvature of the
spine molly went into surgery and had
her spine corrected using metal wires
the doctor advised her and her parents
never to take up skiing again
still they disregarded the advice and in
the following year
she went back and even qualified for the
u.s skiing team
in a qualifying event for the 2002
winter olympics
molly gets severely injured due to an
unforeseen turn of events when a pine
bow broke the bindings on her skis
causing her to fly uncontrollably
through the air the landing broke the
reinforcements in her spine
forcing her to go through intensive
surgery afterward
she was never able to ski again the
magnitude of the events
along with her overbearing father only
weighed heavily on the girl
longing to escape a life of rigidity and
enjoy some of her youth
molly decided to take a year off law
school and travel to la
during these days she found a job as a
cocktail waitress at a bar called
nacional nightclub
here she was tasked to keep trying to
sell more expensive alcohol to the
customers
one evening in the nightclub she meets
dean keith dean is a partner at black
hughes investments
and he has taken a liking to molly this
lands her a second job as his personal
assistant
he continually pesters her with his
burst and demanding attitude
but molly maintains her composure
continuing to behave as a consummate
professional should
one day deena signs molly to set up a
high-stakes poker game with dean's
celebrity friends
surprised by his star-studded list of
contacts molly is eager to reach out to
them
on the night of the game molly greets
all nine poker players as she hands
their money for the game
she counts over 90 000 at the poker
table in front of her
and that very poker table has an array
of movie stars film directors
rappers and business titans needless to
say molly is bewildered by the entire
thing
when the game ended all of the players
each give molly a tip
earning her a total of three thousand
dollars in a single night
and it was at that moment that molly
knew her life would be heading a
different turn
molly decides to postpone law school for
one more year to regularly run the games
for dean keith at the cobra lounge
molly has since then dedicated herself
to learning everything there is to learn
about this world she found herself in
she buys a dress that makes her look
nothing like herself and she even starts
listening in on the conversations during
the games
which became bigger and bigger with more
and more guests
one of the regulars a movie star that
molly calls player x for anonymity
consistently wins the most money during
the games molly has decided that if
she's going to make it big
she will have to team up with this man
molly then tries her best to find more
guests that would be stupid and willing
to spend a large enough amount of money
she then goes to nacional nightclub
promising the waitresses a certain
amount of pay if they send her a guest
at the poker game
she does this for the local casino and
approaches the pit boss
asking him to send players in exchange
for a share of the money
several games later dean keith starts
feeling uneasy about his current
financial situation
one night during a game dean steps out
of the room with molly and tells her
that he will have to stop paying her for
her job as an office assistant
especially since she makes enough in
tips molly protests
but dean threatens to fire her from the
job and then the game if she disagrees
forced to comply molly puts a plan in
place to make sure she won't lose the
game she fully expects in the near
future
molly rents a suite at an expensive
hotel and sets up the place to be better
than the cobra lounge
one night molly receives a call from
dean telling her that she's fired
but life goes on for molly and the next
morning she retrieves her things from
dean's office
only to set up her game at the beverly
hills hotel that evening
she invites all of the regulars and the
guests before proceeding with the game
molly makes an announcement for the
confused players promising that there
would be no hard feelings if they
preferred to play in the cobra lounge
player x the game's biggest hotshot and
molly's friend
looks at her and says let's play from
then on
molly has successfully taken the game
away from dean keith
as time passes by molly grows more
acclimated to her role
despite her avoidance of any romantic or
intimate involvement with the players
molly continues to receive several
advances from them
one evening player x tells molly to
raise the stakes to a 50 000
buy-in molly is hesitant at first
explaining that it'd be difficult to
find players who have the money to lose
that much
but at player x's insistence molly
starts recruiting again
among the recruits was donnie silverman
the man who won the world series of
poker the previous year
player x is shocked that molly would
invite him but molly goes on to explain
dani's vulnerabilities and patterns of
behavior
with malicious intent player x asserts
that while he doesn't like playing poker
he likes destroying people's lives
with that he instructs molly to give
dany a seat at the table
the next recruit she has lined up is
brad marion known to the table as bad
brad for his notoriously bad poker
skills if you could even call it skill
through the several weeks of consistent
losses molly begins to take pity on brad
she even tries to dissuade him from
playing or at the very least
offer him a book or a poker lesson
however it's revealed that brad knew
what he was doing all along
he intentionally loses a hundred
thousand every week only to gain four
million later on
another player is harlan eustis with
whom molly feels uneasy
she can't pinpoint where he gets his
money from over time
molly has taken a liking to harlan even
though the source of his money remains a
mystery
one particular evening harlan is winning
at the table with his excellent card
skills
however things take a sudden turn when
brad marion goes up against him
harlan miscalculates during the final
hand when he's led to believe that brad
has a winning set
making him fold since harlan has never
played with brad before he doesn't know
how terrible he is with cards
and in truth brad has no idea what he's
doing
when harlan saw brad's cards after the
game he realizes that brad had
absolutely nothing all this time though
he had only lost a relatively small
amount during that
hand the minor defeat sends harlan
spiraling into a tilted disposition
because of this harlan plunges himself
into a crazed gambling frenzy
recklessly tossing his winnings to
regain some of his lost pride
by the end of the night harlan owes
molly 1.2 million dollars
harlan leaves for home and molly tells
him they'll talk about the money the
following day
however this doesn't happen because
harlan hands molly a check for the 1.2
million dollars the following week
finally player x confesses that he was
funding harlan the entire two years he's
played there and that he earns 50
of harlan's winnings upon hearing this
molly is outraged
and she asserts that what he did isn't
allowed since that setup can let him
manipulate the game in his favor
while player x is adamant that what he's
doing isn't cheating
a falling out ensues between them and
molly knows that this can only spell
trouble
player access stopped showing up at
molly's game the following week
and he brought with him all the other
players with the game taken away from
molly
she falls into a brief period of misery
after two weeks without her beloved
routine
molly decides to take a plane to new
york there she gathers information from
the locale about the biggest running
poker games in the city
one of the women she meets tells her
that the biggest game is in brooklyn
or most participants are russian jews
after laying down the groundwork
she proceeds to build a poker game from
scratch with the help of her new friends
and in a few months molly is running the
biggest game in the entire world
however things begin to turn sour when
one of the players cheated by bringing
in fake poker chips
which molly caught on too because of
this one of her new dealer's name b
suggests that she should take a rake a
rake in poker refers to a certain
percentage of money that the cardroom
host takes from the pot
and this is how most gambling houses
generate revenue
however it is considered illegal in most
jurisdictions to take a rake if the
operations don't have a gaming license
like casinos do
and since molly is operating her
business at a private dwelling and not
an official gambling house
she doesn't have a gaming license one
evening as the big game is underway
molly realizes that the stakes are
irrevocably high
she wouldn't be able to afford to pay a
large amount of money if someone were to
win big
this is when she signals to dealer b who
quickly takes in two percent of the pot
with this move molly has now made her
game illegal
one of the players in molly's game is
the dopey and drunk douglas downey
every night after the game douglas would
hang around and speak with
molly while she's checking the books in
one of his drunken speeches
douglas mentions the brooklyn game where
the russian jews played recklessly and
always paid up front
this information comes in handy when
later on douglas accumulates an 80
dollar debt to molly capitalizing on the
opportunity
molly tells douglas to invite some of
those russians to the game
and in exchange she'll let him play
until he's able to pay the eighty
thousand
the following week the russians arrive
they consist of mike davidoff brothers
ilya and alexi gershon and shelly habib
just as the rumors promise the russians
play recklessly
lose unabashedly and pay up instantly
during this time
brad marion had been indicted for
running a ponzi scheme causing mollie to
be investigated and questioned about who
attended her games
bit by bit her days in new york become
more and more disenchanting
molly drops further into her drug
addiction depression starts to plague
her and she becomes sick of running
games for greedy men
one day members of the italian mafia
approach molly as they seek to partner
with her
the mafia reports that they know many of
her players haven't paid their debts to
her
which now amount to 2.8 million given
her predicament
they then offer to extort the money from
these non-paying players
when molly declines she is attacked by a
burly italian man in her apartment
he steals the money she has on hand and
coerces her into a partnership with them
injured and alone molly stays in her
apartment for the next two weeks
waiting for the italian mafia's call
eventually
she finds out that 125 mafia members
have been recently arrested in a big
raid
because of this fortunate turn of events
molly decides to run a week of big
epic aims to win back the 2.8 million
that she lost to unpaid debt
but as she's making her way to the game
the fbi seizes the entire operation
thanks to douglas downey who acted as
their informant
despite this sharp turn molly leaves
relatively unscathed
because douglas is in love with her he
refrained from giving the authorities
molly's name
this allows her to escape but the ordeal
leaves her with nothing as the fbi
seized all her assets
left with no other options molly goes to
the airport and returns home to live
with her mother
two years later molly has moved out she
publishes a book where she names a few
individuals who played in her games
mainly those who have already been
identified during brad marion's
indictment
the fbi eventually arrests molly and
charges her for her involvement in
illegal gambling with the mafia
she enlists the help of charlie jaffe a
high profile and expensive lawyer in new
york
though her case looks bleak charlie
agrees to help her especially after
learning that she's been protecting her
players
particularly the innocent people who
have been affected by her poker games
despite the trouble they gave her she
refused to use extortion to collect her
debt though the opportunities always
presented itself to her
with charlie's help the two of them try
to prove to the court that
apart from her taking a rake she has no
involvement whatsoever in the crime
syndicates arrested during one of her
games
because of this they argue that she
doesn't deserve imprisonment
during the legal proceedings in new york
molly's father
larry visits her knowing the emotional
scars he left molly during her formative
years
he tries to make amends with his
daughter larry admits that he treated
her differently from her brothers
because she knew of his affairs
filled with both anger and distress he
breaks down crying when he tells molly
how devastated he was to learn that a
mafia member beat her up
he even promises to make the man who put
his hands on her suffer
charlie negotiates a deal for molly to
have her money back and be exempt from a
prison sentence
in exchange they want the hard drives
and digital records she kept from her
games
though this could very well be the
answer to all her problems molly still
turns down the deal
she fears that the information about her
players would be released greatly
affecting these people's lives
during the hearing the judge arrives at
the conclusion that molly has only
committed non-serious crimes
because of this she's sentenced to a
mere 200-hour community service
one-year probation and a 200 000 fine
as the bloom family and charlie
celebrate her victory molly begins to
realize how knee deep in debt she is
she owes the government nearly 2 million
she has a quarter of a million dollars
in legal bills
she's a felon and for some reason she's
not allowed to go to canada
despite all this molly remains
optimistic after surviving everything
from being on top of the world to
trudging through a hellscape molly
learns that she's very hard to kill
subscribe to watch more videos like this
turn on notifications
and leave a like it really helps the
channel out thank you for watching
[Music]